---
layout: post
posts: Java programming language
---



### Java programming language

Learnt of java being a general purpose programming language that is concurrent, class-based, object oriented.

### Java is:

1. Object Oriented: In Java, everything is an Object. Java can be easily extended since it is based on the
Object model.
2. Platform independent: Unlike many other programming languages including C and C++, when Java is
compiled, it is not compiled into platform specific machine, rather into platform independent byte code.
This byte code is distributed over the web and interpreted by virtual Machine (JVM) on whichever platform
it is being run.
3. Simple:Java is designed to be easy to learn. If you understand the basic concept of OOP,Java would be
easy to master.
4. Secure: With Java's secure feature, it enables to develop virus-free, tamper-free systems. Authentication
techniques are based on public-key encryption.
5. Architectural-neutral:Java compiler generates an architecture-neutral object file format, which makes
the compiled code to be executable on many processors, with the presence of Java runtime system.
6. Portable: Being architectural-neutral and having no implementation dependent aspects of the
specification makes Java portable. Compiler inJava is written in ANSI C with a clean portability boundary
which is a POSIX subset.
7. Robust:Java makes an effort to eliminate error prone situations by emphasizing mainly on compile time
error checking and runtime checking.

Through code wars experience ventured into a holistic view in algorithims and getting solutions to problems given in the site.
Java language is diverse and through that i got to learn more and also an introduction to java scripting.
Practicing java on your personal pc would require a Java development kit which is a compiller.
